# Jeff-Interpreted-Language-JIL-
Development of an interpreted language for use in future projects, but mostly as a learning exercise. 

## Welcome!

What is this? I am embarking on a journey to develop a general purpose interpreted language in c++, mostly for educational purposes. I have many goals
for doing this. One goal is to just become more familiar with modern and optimized c++ and OO principles to improve my craft. Another (albeit lofty) goal
is to create a fun and engaging open-source community working to build something fun. Looking to have other contributors, and be welcoming to people who want 
to start contributing to an open source project. 

## Where to start?
This project is built using CMake. I will add in build details shortly, but I am currently developing this on both MacOS, and Windows. There will be some pains getting your build environment set up
however I will eventually put some installation and build instructions up. 

## Community
[Join the Discord Server!](https://discord.gg/Mx4HkVw) This is going to be the main communication area for discussions, as development moves forward. 

## Dev Tasks
Current Development tasks can be found [at the Trello Board](https://trello.com/b/UHF9wIE2/jil-dev)

# Current Functionality and progress
While working on parsing keywords, Arithmetic operations are currently broken. Will fix shortly!

~Wooo! Version 0.00000001 is done! JIL can now support arithmetic operations preserving order of operations for the four basic operators, MDAS (not the full PEMDAS yet)~
VariableNames can be placed on the left hand side of an "=" operator, in order to store that variable. If the variable is stored, you can then use that variable on the right side of an "=" operator to use it in arithmetic.
## Example
### Valid ```.jil``` File at this point. 
```
 x=20+1-4/2
 y=x*2
 c = y*x
```
 
So far, white space in the lines is not a problem, spaces are stripped out by the Tokenzier. 

### Building on Windows
CMake must be installed. If building on Windows, There are two possible routes, either using Visual Studio 2019 or MinGW. A VS .sln file can be generated by running

```
>cd BuildScripts/VisualStudio2019
>.\BuildVSProject.bat
```

This will place a .sln in the BuildScripts/VisualStudio2019 folder. By opening this file in Visual Studio, the project can be built, placing the executable file in BuildScripts/VisualStudio2019/Debug. When the project has been built, the interpreter can be used

```
>cd Debug
>.\JILInterpreter.exe \PATH\TO\testJILFile.jil
```

Building with an older VS should be easy by modifying the ```BuildVSProject.bat``` file your version. This should be modified so the project can be built by more users. 

### Building on Mac
The project can be built using the scripts in the "BuildScripts/Unix" folder.

### Building on Unix
In order to build on Unix both cmake and g++ need to be installed. The project can be used by running
```
>cd BuildScripts/Unix
>./BuildUnix.sh
>./JILInterpreter /PATH/TO/testJILFile.jil
```